METSlib
=======

METSlib: a metaheuristic framework.
-----------------------------------

This project is under development and, althought useful, must be
reviewed to be ready for anyone to use.

METSlib is an OO (Object Oriented) metaheuristics optimization
framework in C++ designed to make easy implementing or adapting
models. The model is modular: all the implemented search algorithms
can be applied to the same model.

Once the model is implemented one can test some Tabu Search Strategies
or Simulated Annealing or other local search based search strategies.

METSlib is Open Source and is covered by the GNU GPL license or, at
your opinion, by the Common Public License 1.0. Commercial licensing
can be considered by the author upon request.

METSlib implements the basics of some metaheuristics algorithm:

    * Random Restart Local Search
    * Variable Neighborhood Search
    * Iterated Local Search
    * Simulated Annealing (with linear, exponential and custom cooling
      schedule)
    * Tabu Search.

To use any algorithm you must implement an objective function, a
neighborhood (move manager) and some moves.

For each algorithm you are free to use some of the already implemented
termination criteria and/os cooling schedule (for SA) and/or tabu
lists and aspiration criteria (for TS), or you can implement you own
specialized versions.

The object oriented structure was carefully thought out to be highly
reusable and the algorithm where reviewed by more than one person and
more than one time.

This OO library was inspired by the OTS library released by the
Coin-OR project, the concepts presented in that library have been
adapted to C++, optimized for speed, and extended. 

You may want to read http://code.100allora.it/metslib and
http://code.100allora.it/metslib/wiki/QueensProblem wiki page for
quick introductory tutorial.


Complete API Documentation
--------------------------

    - http://code.100allora.it/docs/metslib/


Sample programs
---------------

    - http://code.100allora.it/metslib/wiki/KnapsackProblem
    - http://code.100allora.it/metslib/wiki/QueensProblem


Contact Information
-------------------

This library was used in different projects by two different
developers and proved quite useful to implement a new model (or to
adapt an old one) without re-inventing the wheel each time. At the
same time it's young so I'll be happy to help you while implementing
the nuts and bolts of your own model since documentation is still a
work in progress.

Feel free to write an email to <mirko.maischberger@gmail.com>.


Need help? Willing to help?
---------------------------

Join the mailing list
http://lists.100allora.it/mailman/listinfo/metslib-dev 
and start contributing

Credits
-------

Automake template by: Murray Cumming <murrayc@usa.net> based on the
GtkExtra-- project files created by Cedric Gustin
<gustin@pcpm.ucl.ac.be>

If you use the library you should cite it in your work:
=======================================================

    - Mirko Maischberger, "METSlib metaheuristic framework version
      0.4.2". [online] Available http://code.100allora.it/metslib,
      (the date you visited the site)

    BibTex Entry (Use \usepackage{hyperref} in tex file.):      

@misc{metslib2008,
  author={Mirko Maischberger},
  title={{METSlib} metaheuristic framework version 0.4.2},
  month={December},
  year={2008},
  howpublished = {\url{http://code.100allora.it/metslib}},
}

- Mirko Maischberger
